As the Buddha summoned the brother, again we will start with our virtual motivation.
And speaking about the motivations, generally there are three kinds of motivations.
When you look from the point of view of the Mahayanas teachings, there are three forms of this.
Those are known as the lesser motivations of the lesser motivations, mediocre motivations, and then
very higher motivations.
This is that when you look from the point of view of the Mahayanas schools.
What is a lesser motivation? It's a little of sentient beings basically, but also connected to the
spiritual, to the Dharma.
And there is some serving people, that is a great master generally, as Buddha told, and a great
master Atisha highlighted that,
and as well as the great master Sastakkapa, and others are also highlighted that.
This is again from the point of view of the Mahayanas, there is this first one is then regular
motivations,
that many sentient beings, or we all have that, that many motivations.
And then also very connected to the Dharma.
And in the teachings there are some individualists, they do practice Dharma, but thinking of the
small range of the view.
The vision is small, range of the vision is quite small, just thinking mainly of these lifetimes.
Or if they believe next life, they like thinking of the, such as heaven, or something kind of
higher stage, that I would like to do this practice,
do these things to become comfortable, beautiful life, in this life, and believing then also in the
future go to the heavens.
Or the gods, such as, or individual, back to the human beings, human realms, be good.
Just thinking of those, those and practice Dharma.
And that also mainly connected with the very only way, as at worldly concerns.
Something that we like, something we don't like, those are known at worldly concerns, and many of
you already heard that.
This is Monday, just a very average, decent average, attitude, and their wish, and their thinking,
it's genuinely wonderful, it's beautiful.
That worry will be the foundation of in the teaching, in the Mahayana teaching, it will be stuck in
stone to go over and higher, and then go beyond.
So those are known as post-motivation of the lesser, lesser, or post-motivation, or small-mot
ivation of the individuals.
And in the teaching said, "Tiwo Chum," in a way, small localized vision, localized range of the
view there.
And then the second motivation is known as the mediocre motivations of the individuals.
That directly deals with the practitioners, again in the Buddha's teaching, such as in the Mahayana
point of view, those are known as the Hinayana practitioners.
And thinking of that, like to be free from the sufferings of the samsara, not just thinking to go
to the God's realms, or go back to the human's realm, but like to out of the samsara.
And thinking of little more wider range than the post-view, post-vision of the individual.
The whole thing, that I like to go out of this mess, and out of these places, it is not good, it's
not comfortable, it's disgusting, be bothering me, my life, my life, and this life also too is
bothering me.
And now I understand what is the cause and what is the condition, the source, it is ego, it is ego,
it is ego, that is what I like to remove this ego, and like to use, use the emergency exit door, go
out, draft it, and up is enough, and up is enough, that's what they say, and move out, instant.
That range is in the teaching, as I said many times, according to the Hinayana point of view, that
is mediocre intention, not too many others thinking of one's own self safe comfort, zone for
permanent, for ever good things, thinking of that, and that is what it is.
And the next one is then, the bigger vision, the vastness of more vision, this is known as then,
the biggest vision of the big guys, big guys vision, it is the biggest of the big guys, guys, and
that is then, the Mahayana vision, thinking, not just only thinking of themself for this life or
the next life,
not just also even out of the samsara, but thinking of all the sentient beings, like to stay in the
samsara, to help, to guide, and to support, to liberate every living beings, through the
enlightened status, that's why develop the bodhicchathas, and those bodhicchathas, known as then,
the shepherd-like bodhicchathas, cello-like bodhicchathas, king-like bodhicchathas, or royal-like
bodhicchathas,
those are three different ways, but basic goal is to remove every sentient beings, from the
suffering, and from the difficulties, from troubles, for that very purpose, even had to stay in the
samsara, as long as needed to stay.
And such as, like examples, great bodhicchathas, our lokudishvara, namanjishri, vagapanis, and so
forth, all those great bodhicchathas, that who is rigid already enlightened state, yet still
standing on the threshold of the bodhicchathas, or in one way to understand that, that's what
teaching says.
They are really in the tentacle, the bodhisattva, is hiding that, purposely to benefit, to help all
the sentient beings.
It did not mean, when you are reaching enlightenment, when you become the Buddha, Buddha, that you
cannot benefit for all the sentient beings, that's what the namakaya is, to benefit for all the
beings.
But however, it shows their intention, their courage, their commitment, their willingness to help
to all the sentient beings, to remove the suffering, the difficulties, troubles, every living
beings.
This is the whole vastness, motivation of the bodhicchathas.
Among that three work motivations, this is Mahayana teaching, and we are the followers of the Mahay
ana practitioners.
Therefore, then, always, great master, Kinti Vadnishri, all the lineage masters, those practice
lineage masters, said, "Rest in our motivation".
Because that motivation is the way we are standing.
That is our firm, solid ground of the practice and the development.
That is our, not just standing, but that's our vision.
That is our practice.
Therefore, this is the vastness, motivation of the bodhicchathas.
And again, you have the bodhicchathas.
All that is bodhicchathas, love and kindness, compassion.
But activity is so important.
Reminding us, it is so important.
Glorifying is so important.
Polishing is so important.
As you know, if something that you love and cherish, the souvenirs, you always take care of that.
It's not just got that and neglected that.
This is more than the souvenirs.
This is the souvenir of ours, but souvenirs of all the living beings.
Therefore, we should cherish and activate and glorify of this beautiful, precious nature.
The wish-fulfilling trees, trees that have grated all the wishes.
Not just for us, but for all the sentient beings.
We are thinking of all beings.
We are thinking of this narrow corner-side thinking.
And that is very important.
And when I received the teaching, all the great masters reminded me this.
We should always resent them.
And as we went many times, I had the opportunity to go to the teaching.
And that also, the masters reminded us.
And therefore, following their footsteps, I am reminding them too.
I am reminding to you, I am reminding to my side.
We all need to cherish the strengthen of this bodhicata.
Bodhicata is kind, compassion, and is wisdom.
And then as we go to the higher stage, such as zokki teaching, bodhicata is the bodhic practice.
Bodhicata, there is nothing else besides zokki teaching than the bodhicata.
So therefore, it is, what is bodhicata is why we are using the Sanskrit word,
the enlightenment mind, a waking mind, a waking nature,
a waking energy of the intelligence that which is within our self, our heart center.
Today, zokki practice, we are waking up that.
We bring up that on the state, of the brilliant states.
We like to remove all the photos and the misses of the dust that bother us,
preventing of this beauty in nature.
That is what we are practicing.
That is therefore, we should strengthen this, this motivation.
This motivation is the foundation.
With that motivation, then as the Vaidyana motivation, purity understands.
Purity understanding that suppose we have this vastness motivation as foundation,
then purity motivation is the ornament, ornament, decorators, decorators.
That is what is your breath.
And we combined together, truly then we become the great practitioners.
Whether we have the name or not, we become the great yogi and yogi-ness in Vaidyana teachers.
And in bodhi, in Vaidyana teaching, we truly become the great bodhisattva,
the man and the female.
And that is what the great master, what I call noble daughter, noble son,
truly we become the noble son and noble daughter.
Noble son and noble daughter is not just names, is not name.
When you glorify of this energy, the glory is waking this nature,
then truly we become the noble son or the noble daughter.
That is noble, we become noble leaders.
The period of the holy, this is holy.
This is the one the bodhi jata is.
And that's what is so important.
And we do some understanding and then we move to the teaching.